Explain how to do SSH-agent forwarding on macOS (#228)
projectsyn/commodore: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/running-commodore.adoc

== macOS X

On macOS with Docker for Mac mounting the SSH agents socket into a container doesn't work.
Instead you need to mount as magic path that's provided by Docker for Mac.

[NOTE]
====
This only works for the stock ssh-agent coming along with macOS.

> If you use any other agent, you are out of luck.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use any other agent, you might be out of luck.
```

== macOS X

On macOS with Docker for Mac mounting the SSH agents socket into a container doesn't work.
Instead you need to mount as magic path that's provided by Docker for Mac.

[NOTE]
====
This only works for the stock ssh-agent coming along with macOS.

> If you use any other agent, you are out of luck.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention that other agents work as well, as long as they allow to store their socket file in a certain directory?

Author: Do you have a working example? If not, no as it is not confirmed knowledge.

Reviewer 2: Jup, I actually got it working with my brew-installed ssh-agent without any changes.

Reviewer 2: Ok wait, scratch that. I think it's still starting the macOS agent and not the brew installed one...

Docker for mac doesn't support mounting sockets.
====

[CAUTION]
====
That magic socket path belongs to root.

> One must a container with `--user=0` in order to access it.

Reviewer 3: there seems to be a word missing in `One must [..] a container`.
Btw, "One must ..." is very formal English. You could also just write "You have to [start?] a container..."

Author: Yes the word _run_ was missing.

In consequence, the files created by Commodore will also belong to root.
If you do want to edit them on the host, you need to run `chown -R $UID .` first.
====

[source,bash]
----
commodore() {
  docker run \
    --interactive=true \
    --tty \
    --rm \
    --user="$(id -u)" \
    --env COMMODORE_API_URL=$COMMODORE_API_URL \
    --env COMMODORE_GLOBAL_GIT_BASE=$COMMODORE_GLOBAL_GIT_BASE \
    --env COMMODORE_API_TOKEN=$COMMODORE_API_TOKEN \
    --env SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/ssh_agent.sock \

>     --volume "/run/host-services/ssh-auth.sock:/tmp/ssh_agent.sock" \

Reviewer 4: Doesn't OSX have `$SSH_AUTH_SOCK` which holds the path to the current ssh-auth socket?

Reviewer 2: Yes, but the `/run/host-services/ssh-auth.sock` is a special path inside the Docker VM where the host's agent socket is mounted. So it's always the same path and the host's socket must be at a certain location.

Reviewer 4: Ah right, there's one more layer of magic on OSX, I forgot that was the original issue. So, to reference the other comment, it should still work with any agent though, since that layer of mapping (host-level `$SSH_AUTH_SOCK` to `/run/host-services/ssh-auth.sock`) is done by Docker on OSX?

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately Docker for mac maps a hard coded path into the VM (instead of the generic `$SSH_AUTH_SOCK`).

Reviewer 4: well, nevermind then

    --volume "${HOME}/.ssh/config:/app/.ssh/config:ro" \
    --volume "${HOME}/.gitconfig:/app/.gitconfig:ro" \
    --volume "${PWD}:/app/data" \
    --workdir /app/data \

>     --user=0 \

Reviewer 3: This is probably conflicting/overriding with line 72 (`--user="$(id -u)"`), probably remove line 72?

Also, it's possible to set the group as well with `--user=0:<your-user>`, would something with group membership also solve file permissions?

Author: I tested that one again. I forgot another Docker for Mac magic: your file permissions are always correct :tm:. That is, their owner will always be your user.

I fixed the duplicate `--user` option.
